---
title: W05 - Feature Engineering Techniques for Text Data
module: Statistical Modelling And Inferencing
week: W05 - Feature Engineering Techniques for Text Data
---

In this module, we have seen a few feature engineering techniques for text  

data. We spoke about tokens and vectors. We also saw techniques like tokenizing,  

removing stop words, TFIDF vectorization, using count vectorizer  

to create unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams, one hard encoding.  

And part of speech tagging, we also examined code that demonstrates these  

techniques and built a text classification model that is trained on  

the 2 news groups data set. There are several other techniques too. For  

example, word embeddings represent words in a dense vector space and helps  

capture semantic meaning. There are libraries such as Word to vec or glove  

that can learn word representations such that similar words have similar  

vectors. Each number in the vector doesn't have an obvious meaning on its  

own, but together they encode things like semantic similarity, synthetic  

relationships, and contextual usage. Contextual embeddings such as those in  

BET and GPT. Generates context aware embeddings, which means the same word  

can have different vectors depending on the context, and they use the  

transformer architecture. For example, I went to the bank to withdraw money.  

In this sentence, bank stands for a financial institution, whereas if we  

say I sat by the river bank, in that sentence, bank refers to riverside, but  

would give different vectors for bank in both cases. All this and more will  

be waiting for you in a course that is focused only on NLP.

Tags: #statistics #machine-learning #data-science #statistical-modelling